doc: Added nRF54H20 migration guides for NCS 2.7 (#15760)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/releases_and_maturity/migration/nRF54H20_migration_2.7/migration_guide_2.6.99-cs2_to_2.7_application.rst

.. _migration_2_6_99_cs2_to_2_7_app:

Migrate your application to |NCS| v2.7.0 (for v2.6.99-cs2 users)
################################################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This document describes the changes you should be aware of when migrating your application from |NCS| v2.6.99-cs2 to |NCS| v2.7.0.

Overview
********

..
   ##TODO link to sysbuild and hwmodelv2 migration guides

|NCS| v2.7.0 introduced a series of changes that might affect your existing applications.
The following is a summary of the most important ones:

Sysbuild

>   A new build system was recently introduced in |NCS|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The new build system used in the |NCS|.
```

  For more information see ``linktosysbuild_migration``

Hardware Model v2

>   A new hardware model was recently introduced in |NCS|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The new hardware model used in the |NCS|.
```

  For more information see ``linktohwmodelv2_migration``

DTS changes

>   The layout of DTS files and the names of DTS nodes related to the updated board names have been also updated, also affecting overlay files from applications and samples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The layout of DTS files and the names of DTS nodes related to the updated board names have been updated, which also affects overlay files from applications and samples.
```

  If your application required a specific custom board, you must update the custom board files to match the changes done to the nRF54H20 SoC DTS files.

Required changes
****************

The following changes are mandatory to make your application work in the same way as in previous releases.

This section describes the changes related to samples and applications.

Samples and applications
========================

General
-------

.. toggle::

   * Sysbuild

>      A new build system was recently introduced in |NCS|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     A new build system was recently introduced in the |NCS|.
```

     For more information see ``linktosysbuild_migration``

   * Hardware Model v2

>      A new hardware model was recently introduced in |NCS|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     A new hardware model was recently introduced in the |NCS|.
```

    +------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | ``cpurad`` | ``grtc``, ``uart135``, ``cpuapp_bellboard``, ``cpurad_bellboard``, ``cpusys_vevif``, ``dppic130``\*, ``dppic132``\*, ``ipct130``\*                                                |
    +------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | ``cpuppr`` | ``grtc``, ``uart135``                                                                                                                                                             |
    +------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

    * A peripheral is enabled at the SoC level in :file:`ncs/zephyr/dts/arm/nordic/nrf54h20_cpurad.dtsi`

>     * Some peripherals are no longer enabled by default.
>       This means that custom boards and applications, which relied on certain peripherals being implicitly enabled, must now explicitly set ``status = "okay"`` on the respective nodes in the board DTS or overlay files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Some peripherals are no longer enabled by default.
    
      This means that custom boards and applications that relied on certain peripherals being implicitly enabled, must now explicitly set ``status = "okay"`` on the respective nodes in the board DTS or overlay files.
```

>       In the SoC DTS for nRF54H20, all peripherals are disabled, except where noted above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      In the SoC DTS for the nRF54H20 DK, all peripherals are disabled, except where noted above.
```

      There is exactly one node for each relevant pair of processors, such as ``cpuapp_cpurad_ipc``.
      Each node also sets the channel numbers for both directions of communication.

    * Local bellboards require additional configuration to receive events from remote cores.
      Example configuration for Application core:

      .. code-block:: devicetree

         &cpuapp_bellboard {
            interrupts = <96 NRF_DEFAULT_IRQ_PRIORITY>;
            interrupt-names = "irq0";
            /* irq0: 0: cpuapp-cpusec, 6: cpuapp-cpusys, 13: cpuapp-cpuppr, 18: cpuapp-cpurad */
            nordic,interrupt-mapping = <0x00042041 0>;
         };

      The ``nordic,interrupt-mapping`` property must be kept in sync with the other IPC nodes in DTS, which contain ``mboxes`` specifiers.
      Here, the property consists of a channel bitmask for interrupt index 0, where for every specifier of the form ``<&cpuapp_bellboard N>``, the Nth bit is set.
      For more information, see :file:`ncs/zephyr/dts/bindings/mbox/nordic,nrf-bellboard-local.yaml`.

    * Configuring a bellboard instance with multiple IRQ lines previously required multiple nodes with ``compatible = "nordic,mbox-nrf-ids"``.

>       Now, this compatible has been removed, and IRQ information can be attached to the actual bellboard node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Now, this ``compatible`` property has been removed, and IRQ information can be attached to the actual bellboard node.
```
